The subject of this thesis is the study and the implementation of a Charge Sensitive Preamplifier (CSA) for capacitive detection in High Energy Physics experiments
[HEP]. The design was implemented using a 0.18 um CMOS process by XFAB. To simulate the capacitive detector, a current source in parallel with a capacitor was
used. It is worth mentioning that the CSA circuit provides an output conversion gain of 2.29 mV/fC, a total gain of 122 dB, and a bandwidth of 505 kHz.

Five major chapters are the basis for this bachelor thesis. In the first chapter, the applications of CSA and different groups of detectors are briefly discussed. In
addition, an introduction takes place about the basic characteristics of the CSA as well as the description of its operation. Emphasis is given to Microstrip Detectors
and Pixel Detectors as they are the most common types in HEP experiments. In particular, not only the materials that are used for semiconductor detectors are
discussed, but charge generation and charge transport inside the detector as well.

The second chapter concerns the noise. At first, the mathematical tools for noise analysis are described. Later, the most common types of noise are explained
and noise sources on CMOS technology are presented. Emphasis is given to thermal and flicker noise, as they contribute mostly to this study.

In the third chapter, an analysis takes place for the amplification topology of the Charge Sensitive Preamplifier. Initially, the most frequently used topologies in
CSA are compared. Afterwards, a frequency analysis of the amplification topology is presented and later the influence of the Miller effect is calculated. 
In the end, the white noise of CSA is analyzed.

In the fourth chapter, all the topologies of Schematic design are explained, and the simulations of the circuit, which are extracted via Cadence Spectre, are pre-
sented and discussed. In the fifth chapter, the layout is presented, and simulations based on back-end-of-line parasitics are extracted, which are compared with those
of chapter four.
